draft censo2017 (#226)
ropensci/roweb3: content/blog/2021-06-20-censo2017/index.md

---
title: 'The Story Behind censo2017, the First rOpenSci Package to be Reviewed in Spanish'
author:
  - Pachá (aka Mauricio Vargas Sepúlveda)
date: '2021-06-20'
version: 0.5
slug: censo2017
categories:
  - blog
tags:
  - open-science
  - reproducible-research
  - data-access
  - data-extraction
  - geospatial
  - community
  - software-peer-review
  - censo2017
description: >
  Chilean census tables at a glance.
---

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> See the Spanish version of this blog post: 
> [La Historia de censo2017, el Primer Paquete de rOpenSci Revisado en Español](/blog/2021/07/27/censo2017-es)
```

#  7 13101021002            1223    78    15        7            1323     92.4      5.90     1.13          0.529
#  8 13101021003            1173   105    34        9            1321     88.8      7.95     2.57          0.681
#  9 13101021004            1199   110    47       14            1370     87.5      8.03     3.43          1.02 
# 10 13101021005             826    87    29       10             952     86.8      9.14     3.05          1.05 
# # … with 2,411 more rows
```

Now you are ready to create a map. As an example, here's the mean overcrowding
map, the others are left as exercise.

```r
# if (!require("colRoz")) remotes::install_github("jacintak/colRoz")
library(chilemapas)
library(colRoz)

ggplot() + 
  geom_sf(data = inner_join(overcrowding2, mapa_zonas),
          aes(fill = prop_mean, geometry = geometry)) +
  geom_sf(data = filter(mapa_comunas, codigo_region == "13"),
          aes(geometry = geometry), colour = "#2A2B75", fill = NA) +
  ylim(-33.65, -33.3) +
  xlim(-70.85, -70.45) +
  scale_fill_gradientn(colors = rev(colRoz_pal("ngadju")), name = "% dwellings") +
  labs(title = "Share of dwelling with mean overcrowding in the Metropolitan Region")
```

> {{< imgtxt src="mean-overcrowding-map.png" alt="mean overcrowding map" >}}

Reviewer: consider using 'figure', for a nicer, bigger picture, and a more detailed alternative text
```suggestion
{{< figure src="mean-overcrowding-map.png" alt="Map of the Metropolitan Region showing polygons representing neighbourhoods and coloured by the degree of overcrowding" >}}
```
